---
title: FAQ
layout: foundation-en
permalink: faq/
---

### What is Travis Foundation?

Travis Foundation is a non-profit organization founded with the objective of
further leveraging Travis CI's growing network of relationships to both the
open source community and companies with the objective of improving Travis CI
OSS as an open source platform and fostering the community around Travis CI as
well as the open source community in general.

This includes supporting projects that are more or less closely related or not
related at all to the development of Travis CI as an open source platform -
such as secondary and external projects that provide opportunities and chances
to newcomers, foster diversity and make the community an even greater place in
general.

### What is Travis CI GmbH?

Travis CI GmbH is a company, founded in Dec 2011 and based in Berlin with the
objective of putting the continued development and support of travis-ci.org
onto a solid, permanent foundation.

It runs both the free, open source service travis-ci.org as well as the
commercial, private service travis-ci.com (currently in private beta).

### What's the relationship of Travis CI GmbH and Travis Foundation?

As a company Travis CI GmbH's primary concern is making our users happy on both
the free, open source service travis-ci.org as well as the commercial, private
service travis-ci.com.

As a non-profit organization Travis Foundation will aim at helping the open
source and development community move forward in technical, social and cultural
ways, one of them being support of the Travis CI OSS platform itself.

While these two objectives often times may overlap they may also be more
distinct when it comes to concrete decisions on, e.g. priorities or
implementation details.

In order to make sure we will continue to pursue both of these interrelated but
in praxis not always identical purposes we decided to establish Travis
Foundation as a non-profit foundation separate from the company.

### Will Travis CI GmbH still support development of the Travis CI platform?

Yes, nothing will change about this.

### How will Travis Foundation will be backed monetarily?

This will have to be worked out more over time.

For starters Travis Foundation will take over 2012's crowdfunding love
campaign, offering advertising space to companies and collecting donations.

Also, Travis CI GmbH will donate a significant percentage of profits to Travis
Foundation on a regular basis.

### Why does Travis Foundation support development of the Travis CI OSS platform?

One reason is that Travis CI GmbH as a company, given limited budget, will not
always, but sometimes decide on different priorities than Travis Foundation
would. After all the company must target two services, with two different
groups of users and two different kinds of projects. Running private tests has
requirements that sometimes differ from running open source project tests.

Another reason is that the Travis CI codebase, itself open source, is the
codebase we know best as a team. We can thus use this codebase in order to give
opportunies in the open source space to novice programmers easily. Also, since
Travis CI is quite an exposed project any contribution to this project will
have an instant impact.

### Is development of the Travis CI OSS platform Travis Foundation's main or only concern?

No, it is one concern amongst others, but not the primary one.

### Will Travis Foundation spend money on developing Travis Pro?

No, Travis Foundation will never spend any money on things that are solely
related to Travis CI Pro or other commercial offerings.


