---
title: "Travis Foundation launches support for RVM"
layout: post
created_at: Wed 20 Nov 2013
permalink: blog/
current: blog
author: Anika
twitter: langziehohr
---
Oh my gosh, the day has come! Today we are finally revealing what we've been
working on for the last weeks and months!

It's been so amazing getting this [love and support from you
all](love.travis-ci.org), that we thought what would be a good way of giving
something back. So this is what we build for you: Meet Travis Foundation!

![](https://f.cloud.github.com/assets/1711357/1578037/5ead41b2-5174-11e3-96e1-7e9dae8580b2.png)


### Non-profit support for Open Source

[Travis Foundation](foundation.travis-ci.org) is an institution aiming to
foster the Open Source community: We'll help fund hand-picked projects, work
towards more diversity and support amazing initiatives!

We want it to become an institution that promotes and encourages changes in the
community, connects people and ideas.

Travis CI has always been very much rooted in Open Source. Working with the
community to build a service for the community has been one wild love and
succes story. Since Travis CI now is an established, solid service, it is time
to give back even more.


### Our first project

After coordinating and managing [Rails Girls Summer of
Code](railsgirlssummerofcode.org) - which was our unofficial first project we
took on - we are now focussing on organizing Open Source Grants. This means we
help set up funding for hand-picked Open Source projects. Either if it's a new
project or an established one that needs help being continued - we want to
support progress and amazing ideas!

The first project we took on for our Open Source Grants is [RVM](rvm.io). We
are happy to announce that we've secured funding for RVM for the next two
months! This means that the current Maintainer Michal Papis can work fulltime
on bootstrapping RVM 2.0 until mid January. This is made possible by the great
people of

<a href="paymill.com"><img src="https://f.cloud.github.com/assets/1711357/1591306/6c7064c2-52a1-11e3-917d-9b3be5f40f83.png" width="300">

who are supporting and sponsoring this project, which we are truly grateful
for! The journey will start today and we are looking forward to see this
wonderful project start off.


### How you can get involved

Travis Foundation is a non-profit initiative that wants to help make our
community an even better place. Since we have lots of ideas and even bigger
plans, we are always looking for people to help us on that journey. So if you
want to get on board [please get in touch](mailto:Foundation@travis-ci.org),
we'd love to hear from you.

Thanks again to [PAYMILL](paymill.com) for being our launch partner and
supporting us and our mission from the first minute. There are some really
great things ahead and it's time to raise our glasses (or tea pots/ coffee
mugs/ mate bottles for that matter):

To the Travis Foundation and a great journey ahead!


### Cheers!

And now ... go a head and hop on to our new and shiny Foundation Site and [read
on about our goals, our projects, and how to contribute](foundation.travis-ci.org).
